# Postgres data modeling for Sparkify       

* Schema for Song Play Analysis. A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

# Introduction

Data modeling for sparkify :

Using the song and log datasets, you'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.  

# Data

Song Dataset

- The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

Log Dataset

- The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

# Project Steps (Run in terminal enviorement)
* Create Tables - python sql_queries.py
* Build ETL Processes - python create_tables.py
* Build ETL Pipeline - python etl.py

# Environment
* Jupyter lab by Udacity



